docs: add documentation about how to deploy operators into the docs (#298)
quarkiverse/quarkus-operator-sdk: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

So far, we have already built the Operator bundle image at `$MY_BUNDLE_IMAGE` (see above) and next, we need to add this Operator bundle image into our catalog. For doing this, we'll use the `olm` tool as follows:

[source,shell script]
----
CATALOG_IMAGE=<catalog container registry>/<catalog container registry namespace>/<catalog name>:<tag>
opm index add \
    --bundles $MY_BUNDLE_IMAGE \
    --tag $CATALOG_IMAGE \
    --build-tool docker
docker push $CATALOG_IMAGE
----

For example, if our catalog name is `my-catalog`, our container registry for the catalog is `quay.io`, our Quay user is `myuser` and the container tag we're releasing is `59.0`, the final `CATALOG_IMAGE` property would be `quay.io/myuser/my-catalog:59.0`.

[NOTE]
====
If you're using an insecure registry, you'd need to append the argument `--skip-tls` to the `opm index` command.
====

> Once we have our catalog image built and pushed at `$CATALOG_IMAGE`, we need to install it in the same namespace where OLM is running (by default, OLM is running in the `operators` namespace, we will use the `OLM_NAMESPACE` property to set this namespace) on our cluster using the `CatalogSource` resource by doing the next command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we have our catalog image built and pushed at `$CATALOG_IMAGE`, we need to install it in the same namespace where OLM is running (by default, OLM is running in the `operators` namespace, we will use the `OLM_NAMESPACE` property to represent this namespace) on our cluster using the `CatalogSource` resource by doing the next command:
```

</dependency>
----

== Deployment

This section explains how to deploy your operator using the https://olm.operatorframework.io/[Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM)] by following the next steps:

0. Requirements

> Make sure you have installed the https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry[opm] command tool and have connected to a Kubernetes cluster with the OLM installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you have installed the https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry[opm] command tool and have connected to a Kubernetes cluster on which OLM is installed.
```
```suggestion
Make sure you have installed the https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry[opm] command tool and have connected to a Kubernetes cluster with the OLM installed.
```

> Make sure you have installed the https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry[opm] command tool and have connected to a Kubernetes cluster with the OLM installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you have installed the https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry[opm] command tool and have connected to a Kubernetes cluster on which OLM is installed.
```
```suggestion
Make sure you have installed the https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry[opm] command tool and have connected to a Kubernetes cluster with the OLM installed.
```

1. Generate the Operator image and bundle manifests

> Quarkus provides https://quarkus.io/guides/container-image[several extensions] to build the container image. For example, the https://github.com/quarkiverse/quarkus-operator-sdk/tree/main/samples/joke#deployment[Joke] sample uses the https://quarkus.io/guides/container-image#jib[Quarkus Jib container image extension] to build the image. So, you first need to configure one of these extensions at your choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quarkus provides https://quarkus.io/guides/container-image[several extensions] to build the container image. For example, the https://github.com/quarkiverse/quarkus-operator-sdk/tree/main/samples/joke#deployment[Joke] sample uses the https://quarkus.io/guides/container-image#jib[Quarkus Jib container image extension] to build the image. So, you first need to configure one of these extensions as you prefer.
```

> Quarkus provides https://quarkus.io/guides/container-image[several extensions] to build the container image. For example, the https://github.com/quarkiverse/quarkus-operator-sdk/tree/main/samples/joke#deployment[Joke] sample uses the https://quarkus.io/guides/container-image#jib[Quarkus Jib container image extension] to build the image. So, you first need to configure one of these extensions at your choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quarkus provides https://quarkus.io/guides/container-image[several extensions] to build the container image. For example, the https://github.com/quarkiverse/quarkus-operator-sdk/tree/main/samples/joke#deployment[Joke] sample uses the https://quarkus.io/guides/container-image#jib[Quarkus Jib container image extension] to build the image. So, you first need to configure one of these extensions as you prefer.
```

Then, you need to add the `quarkus-operator-sdk-bundle-generator` extension:

[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>io.quarkiverse.operatorsdk</groupId>
    <artifactId>quarkus-operator-sdk-bundle-generator</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

> This extension generates the Operator bundle manifests at `target/bundle`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This extension generates the Operator bundle manifests in the `target/bundle` directory.
```

> This extension generates the Operator bundle manifests at `target/bundle`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This extension generates the Operator bundle manifests in the `target/bundle` directory.
```

Finally, to generate the operator image and the bundle manifests at once, you simply need to run the next Maven command:

[source,shell script]
----
mvn clean package -Dquarkus.container-image.build=true \
    -Dquarkus.container-image.push=true \
    -Dquarkus.container-image.registry=<your container registry. Example: quay.io> \
    -Dquarkus.container-image.group=<your container registry namespace> \
    -Dquarkus.kubernetes.namespace=<the kubernetes namespace where you will deploy the operator> \
    -Dquarkus.operator-sdk.bundle.package-name=<the name of the package that bundle image belongs to> \
    -Dquarkus.operator-sdk.bundle.channels=<the list of channels that bundle image belongs to>
----

For example, if we want to name the package `my-operator` and use the `alpha` channels, we would need to append the properties `-Dquarkus.operator-sdk.bundle.package-name=my-operator -Dquarkus.operator-sdk.bundle.channels=alpha`.

[NOTE]
====

> Find more information about channels and packages in https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/best-practices/channel-naming/#channels[this link].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Find more information about channels and packages at https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/best-practices/channel-naming/#channels[this link].
```
```suggestion
Find more information about channels and packages in https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/best-practices/channel-naming/#channels[this link].
```

====

[NOTE]
====

> If you're using an insecure container registry, you'd also need to append the next property to the Maven command `-Dquarkus.container-image.insecure=true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using an insecure container registry, you'll also need to append the next property to the Maven command `-Dquarkus.container-image.insecure=true`.
```

> If you're using an insecure container registry, you'd also need to append the next property to the Maven command `-Dquarkus.container-image.insecure=true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using an insecure container registry, you'll also need to append the next property to the Maven command `-Dquarkus.container-image.insecure=true`.
```

====

2. Build the Operator Bundle image

> An Operator Bundle is a container image that stores Kubernetes manifests and metadata associated with an operator. You can find more information about this in https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/creating-operator-bundle/[here].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Operator Bundle is a container image that stores Kubernetes manifests and metadata associated with an operator. You can find more information about this https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/creating-operator-bundle/[here].
```

> An Operator Bundle is a container image that stores Kubernetes manifests and metadata associated with an operator. You can find more information about this in https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/creating-operator-bundle/[here].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Operator Bundle is a container image that stores Kubernetes manifests and metadata associated with an operator. You can find more information about this https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/creating-operator-bundle/[here].
```

> In the previous step, we generated the bundle manifests at `target/bundle` which includes a ready-to-use Dockerfile at `target/bundle/bundle.Dockerfile` file that you will use to build and push the final Operator Bundle image to your container registry:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous step, we generated the bundle manifests at `target/bundle` which includes a ready-to-use `target/bundle/bundle.Dockerfile` Dockerfile that you will use to build and push the final Operator Bundle image to your container registry:
```

> In the previous step, we generated the bundle manifests at `target/bundle` which includes a ready-to-use Dockerfile at `target/bundle/bundle.Dockerfile` file that you will use to build and push the final Operator Bundle image to your container registry:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous step, we generated the bundle manifests at `target/bundle` which includes a ready-to-use `target/bundle/bundle.Dockerfile` Dockerfile that you will use to build and push the final Operator Bundle image to your container registry:
```

So far, we have already built the Operator bundle image at `$MY_BUNDLE_IMAGE` (see above) and next, we need to add this Operator bundle image into our catalog. For doing this, we'll use the `olm` tool as follows:

[source,shell script]
----
CATALOG_IMAGE=<catalog container registry>/<catalog container registry namespace>/<catalog name>:<tag>
opm index add \
    --bundles $MY_BUNDLE_IMAGE \
    --tag $CATALOG_IMAGE \
    --build-tool docker
docker push $CATALOG_IMAGE
----

For example, if our catalog name is `my-catalog`, our container registry for the catalog is `quay.io`, our Quay user is `myuser` and the container tag we're releasing is `59.0`, the final `CATALOG_IMAGE` property would be `quay.io/myuser/my-catalog:59.0`.

[NOTE]
====
If you're using an insecure registry, you'd need to append the argument `--skip-tls` to the `opm index` command.
====

> Once we have our catalog image built and pushed at `$CATALOG_IMAGE` image, we need to install it on our cluster using the `CatalogSource` resource by doing the next command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we have our catalog image built and pushed at `$CATALOG_IMAGE`, we need to install it on our cluster using the `CatalogSource` resource by doing the next command:
```

> Once we have our catalog image built and pushed at `$CATALOG_IMAGE` image, we need to install it on our cluster using the `CatalogSource` resource by doing the next command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we have our catalog image built and pushed at `$CATALOG_IMAGE`, we need to install it on our cluster using the `CatalogSource` resource by doing the next command:
```

[source,shell script]
----
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: CatalogSource
metadata:
  name: my-catalog-source
  namespace: operators
spec:
  sourceType: grpc
  image: $CATALOG_IMAGE
EOF
----

[NOTE]
====

> We need to install the catalog source at the Kubernetes namespace where we installed OLM, which by default is `operators`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to install the catalog source in the Kubernetes namespace where OLM is installed, which by default is `operators`.
```
```suggestion
We need to install the catalog source at the Kubernetes namespace where we installed OLM, which by default is `operators`.
```

====

Once the catalog is installed, you should see the catalog pod up and running:

[source,shell script]
----

> kubectl get pods -n <K8S NAMESPACE> --selector=olm.catalogSource=my-catalog-source

Reviewer: I assume that `K8S NAMESPACE` refers to the namespace in which we created the `CatalogSource`, right? In this case, maybe the note about where OLM is installed should be put before the command to create the `CatalogSource` and a variable `$OLM_NAMESPACE` should be introduced to refer to that namespace?

Author: thanks for spotting! 
let me know if it's clearer now.

> kubectl get pods -n <K8S NAMESPACE> --selector=olm.catalogSource=my-catalog-source

Reviewer: I assume that `K8S NAMESPACE` refers to the namespace in which we created the `CatalogSource`, right? In this case, maybe the note about where OLM is installed should be put before the command to create the `CatalogSource` and a variable `$OLM_NAMESPACE` should be introduced to refer to that namespace?

----

4. Install your operator via OLM

OLM deploys operators via https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/tasks/install-operator-with-olm/#install-your-operator[subscriptions]. Creating a  `Subscription` will trigger the operator deployment. You can simply create the `Subscription` resource that contains the operator name and channel to install by running the following command:

[source,shell script]
----
cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: my-subscription
  namespace: <Kubernetes namespace where your operator will be installed>
spec:
  channel: alpha
  name: my-operator-name
  source: my-catalog-source
  sourceNamespace: operators
EOF
----

[NOTE]
====

> We'll install the operator in the target namespace defined at the metadata object. The `sourceNamespace` value is the Kubernetes namespace where the catalog was installed on (`operators` by default, see the previous step).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll install the operator in the target namespace defined in the metadata object. The `sourceNamespace` value is the Kubernetes namespace where the catalog was installed on (`operators` by default, see the previous step).
```

The `$OLM_NAMESPACE` variable should be used here as well, if we decide to introduce it.

> We'll install the operator in the target namespace defined at the metadata object. The `sourceNamespace` value is the Kubernetes namespace where the catalog was installed on (`operators` by default, see the previous step).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll install the operator in the target namespace defined in the metadata object. The `sourceNamespace` value is the Kubernetes namespace where the catalog was installed on (`operators` by default, see the previous step).
```

The `$OLM_NAMESPACE` variable should be used here as well, if we decide to introduce it.

====

Once the subscription is created, you should see your operator pod up and running:

[source,shell script]
----

> kubectl get csv -n operators my-operator-name

Reviewer: Should use `$OLM_NAMESPACE` instead of `operators` here as well.

Author: changed
